## affine

### Variable: all_dotsimp_denoms

Default value: `false`


When `all_dotsimp_denoms` is a list,
the denominators encountered by `dotsimp` are appended to the list.
`all_dotsimp_denoms` may be initialized to an empty list `[]`
before calling `dotsimp`.


By default, denominators are not collected by `dotsimp`.

### Function: check_overlaps (n, add_to_simps)

Checks the overlaps thru degree *n*,
making sure that you have sufficient simplification rules in each
degree, for `dotsimp` to work correctly.  This process can be speeded
up if you know before hand what the dimension of the space of monomials is.
If it is of finite global dimension, then `hilbert` should be used.  If you
don’t know the monomial dimensions, do not specify a `rank_function`.
An optional third argument `reset`, `false` says don’t bother to query
about resetting things.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: declare_weights (x_1, w_1, ..., x_n, w_n)

Assigns weights *w_1*, ..., *w_n* to *x_1*, ..., *x_n*, respectively.
These are the weights used in computing `nc_degree`.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: dotsimp (f)

Returns 0 if and only if *f* is in the ideal generated by the equations, i.e.,
if and only if *f* is a polynomial combination of the elements of the equations.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: extract_linear_equations (p_1, ..., p_n, m_1, ..., m_n)

Makes a list of the coefficients of the noncommutative polynomials *p_1*, ..., *p_n*
of the noncommutative monomials *m_1*, ..., *m_n*.
The coefficients should be scalars.   Use `list_nc_monomials` to build the list of
monomials.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: fast_central_elements (x_1, ..., x_n, n)

If `set_up_dot_simplifications` has been previously done, finds the central polynomials
in the variables *x_1*, ..., *x_n* in the given degree, *n*.


For example:


```maxima
set_up_dot_simplifications ([y.x + x.y], 3);
fast_central_elements ([x, y], 2);
[y.y, x.x];
```


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: fast_linsolve (expr_1, ..., expr_m, x_1, ..., x_n)

Solves the simultaneous linear equations *expr_1*, ..., *expr_m*
for the variables *x_1*, ..., *x_n*.
Each *expr_i* may be an equation or a general expression;
if given as a general expression, it is treated as an equation of the form `expr_i = 0`.


The return value is a list of equations of the form
`[x_1 = a_1, ..., x_n = a_n]`
where *a_1*, ..., *a_n* are all free of *x_1*, ..., *x_n*.


`fast_linsolve` is faster than `linsolve` for system of equations which
are sparse.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: grobner_basis (expr_1, ..., expr_m)

Returns a Groebner basis for the equations *expr_1*, ..., *expr_m*.
The function `polysimp` can then
be used to simplify other functions relative to the equations.



```maxima
grobner_basis ([3*x^2+1, y*x])$

polysimp (y^2*x + x^3*9 + 2) ==> -3*x + 2
```


`polysimp(f)` yields 0 if and only if *f* is in the ideal generated by
*expr_1*, ..., *expr_m*, that is,
if and only if *f* is a polynomial combination of the elements of
*expr_1*, ..., *expr_m*.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: list_nc_monomials (list_nc_monomials, p_1, ..., p_n, list_nc_monomials, p)

Returns a list of the non commutative monomials occurring in a polynomial *p*
or a list of polynomials *p_1*, ..., *p_n*.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: mono (x_1, ..., x_n, n)

Returns the list of independent
monomials relative to the current dot simplifications of degree *n*
in the variables *x_1*, ..., *x_n*.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: monomial_dimensions (n)

Compute the Hilbert series through degree *n* for the current algebra.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: nc_degree (p)

Returns the degree of a noncommutative polynomial *p*.  See `declare_weights`.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

### Function: set_up_dot_simplifications (set_up_dot_simplifications, eqns, check_through_degree, set_up_dot_simplifications, eqns)

The *eqns* are polynomial equations in non commutative variables.
The value of `current_variables` is the
list of variables used for computing degrees.  The equations must be
homogeneous, in order for the procedure to terminate.


If you have checked overlapping simplifications in `dot_simplifications`
above the degree of *f*, then the following is true:
`dotsimp (f)` yields 0 if and only if *f* is in the
ideal generated by the equations, i.e.,
if and only if *f* is a polynomial combination
of the elements of the equations.


The degree is that returned by `nc_degree`.   This in turn is influenced by
the weights of individual variables.


`load("affine")` loads this function.

